{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat3\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww24660\viewh13140\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx22584\tqr\tx22660\tqr\tx24349\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \
Introduction\
\
therefore intro must introduce how we currently understand traits of relevance, what might be missing, why we haven\'92t measured, other method to do so.\
\
Wetlands are a significant ecosystem affecting the global carbon cycle, and XXX carbon is stored in wetlands, the majority of which is preserved as relatively stable soil carbon. The rate and density of this soil accumulation depends on relative rates of carbon input through deposition of primary production litter and carbon output (?) via soil microbial and microfaunal respiration during decomposition. Wetlands are not only highly productive systems, producing a large volume of autochthonous litter sources to be accumulated into soil carbon, but as geomorphological depressions in the landscape, they also act as sinks for externally produced carbon (allochthonous litter) as well. The degree to which a wetland is an effective sink for allochthonous carbon depends on the size and condition of its catchment and the flow and consistency of its hydrologic connectivity. Hydrologic conditions at a site equally affect not just what species can survive and thrive there, but how effectively the soil encourages decay. Inundated conditions can promote anoxic conditions ideal for limited litter decomposition. Soil carbon stocks are high, especially in peat-forming systems, since this combination of litter input and slow decay can result in significant accumulation of organic carbon. Plants affect soil carbon storage in a number of ways. \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx22584\tqr\tx22660\tqr\tx24349\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\
Despite this important contribution, the relative contribution of specific vegetation communities remains unclear. \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx22584\tqr\tx22660\tqr\tx24349\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Functional traits are often discussed as useful metrics to help classify how plant communities impact ecosystem functions. They help us generalise across seemingly diverse species, and identify patterns among unrelated species. A growing body of literature is dedicated to identifying how plant traits help indicate or mediate the role a species has in providing a given ecosystem service. Root structures can affect soil carbon through the performance of exudates. Particular root systems can encourage or support particular microbial or other deocmpoers communities. The physical structure of wetland plants can also affect the amount of external carbon settles on the soil by physically slowing down flow, encouraging deposition of particulate organic matter.  The predominant mechanism, however, is contribution of authochthonous litter. A great deal has been added to the literature in the past decade to address the question of how do characteristics of vegetation impact their carbon storage and sequestration potential. it has been widely discussed that plants affect the rate and stability of soil organic carbon sequestration in a variety of ways. Plants contribute organic carbon through their biomass, which is deposited on soil surfaces and decomposed to a degree before potentially being assimilated into the soil. The degree to which a species contributes to this soil pool depends on both the volume and \'91decomposability\'92 of its litter. This \'91decomposability\'92 is typically referred to as litter quality. The literature typically correlates the same traits to affect both quantity and quality. The theory suggests that plants with higher productivity will contribute more litter to the soil, and so the theory dictates, also more organic carbon. The leaf economic spectrum hypothesised that aboveground plant material can be split along a single axis of variation between fast-growing, nutrient rich species characterised by low C:N versus slow-growing, nutrient-poor species characterised by high C:N. This is a useful dichotomy, especially as easy to measure leaf traits such as SLA and LDMC vary consistently with C:N ratio. Theory suggests that these same traits affect both productivity as well as indicate litter quality. This implies that species with higher carbon necessarily are more recalcitrant, or put another way, that all carbon is created equal, and that higher carbon implies higher recalcitrant carbon. \
\
This is a useful concept to understanding and predicting decomposition, but when we consider soil carbon storage, what we are really interested in is carbon recalcitrance.  There are many different reasons why biomass carbon may become recalcitrant. These include the abiotic conditions such as oxygen availability, water levels, and ambient nutrients, the biotic conditions, particularly the microbial and macroinvertebrate decomposer communities, as well as the intrinsic chemical complexity of the carbon being deposited. While abiotic and biotic conditions can mean even labile carbon becomes recalcitrant in a particular environment, chemically complex, intrinsically recalcitrant carbon forms, such as lignin, will almost always become recalcitrant in the soil. \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx22584\tqr\tx22660\tqr\tx24349\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx22584\tqr\tx22660\tqr\tx24349\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Mass fractions of hemicellulose, cellulose, and lignin, collectively termed \'91lignocellulosic biomass\'92, are useful measures of litter carbon complexity. Identifying the chemical composition of carbon forms in litter, particularly proportion of lignin, has been done in particular fields, such as in decomposition studies, for some time. However, connecting the traits in the plant economics spectrum with inherent recalcitrance has not been done. In addition, use of chemical composition of litter, primarily of the relative proportions of the three main carbon forms: hemicellulose, cellulose, and lignin, as a trait, is not used at all. Measurement of these checmial forms, termed \'91lignocellulosic biomass\'92 components, are not included in the fairly exhaustive trait handbook. One reason, we expect, for this omission is that the trait literature is guided by a principle that trait measurement should be straightforward, reproducible, and cheap, and current methods for measurement of biomass components are none of these. \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx22584\tqr\tx22660\tqr\tx24349\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Current wet chemistry methods for measuring lignocellulosic biomass sustain a heavy cost \'96 in environmental impact, time, as well as funding. While it is still possible to use these methods to calculate biomass (makkonen, freschet \'96 mult mech, freschet \'96 plant econ), these limitations have undoubtedly reduced the application of biomass measures to ecological research, even in studies where those data (particularly lignin mass) would be relevant (for example to litter decomposition studies; Quested, Albert \'96 Helene, de Vries et al 2012). Other alternatives include liquid chromatography (HPLC) and Nnear infraref spectroscopy (NIRS)  -- (Birouste, and Rovira et al 2008) did NIRS, but also not ideal or widespread because \'85 \
\
An alternative method for lignocellulosic biomass calculation, commonly applied in the biofuel field, is using thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) to estimate these carbon compounds from mass loss data obtained by heating a biomass sample in a linear temperature program (in a N2 environment, termed pyrolysis). Since carbon forms are known to pyrolyse at distinct temperature intervals, mostly independent from one another, we can then use the derivative of the mass loss data to separate out peaks of mass decay attributable to each carbon form. while we can only approximate, research linking the two have shown a strong relationship between the estimated and empirically calculated values. \
\
DTG curve deconvolution has been used in the biofuel field, pyrolytic profiles generated from thermogravimetry are deconvolved into their three independent reactions in order to estimate kinetic parameters for the overall sample **CHECK THIS LIST (Orfao & Figueiredo 2001, Barneto et al 2009, Cai & Liu 2007, Chen et al 2017). Barneto et al 2011 used tga to characterise the lignocellulosic composition of Eucalyptus wood. They foun comparable percent weight contributions as other studies that measured from scratch (Brito et al 2008). Also Orfao et al 1999. This list uses it for biomass?\
(Orfao & Figueiredo 2001, Barneto et al 2009, Cai & Liu 2007, Chen et al 2017). However many of these studies used software to perform the peak fitting, which, in addition to being out of reach for some researchers without access or funds to these softwares, is not reproducible. \
\
Deconvolving DTG curves is a well-established method for estimating biomass fractions, but has not transferred to ecology. \
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx22584\tqr\tx22660\tqr\tx24349\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 We use wetland species as a case study to:\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx22584\tqr\tx22660\tqr\tx24349\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1. use of lignocellulosic biomass to determine the inherent recalcitrance of litter\
2. clarify whether and how established traits relate to inherent recalcitrance\
3. evaluate biomass traits as potential candidates for future trait research considering new methodology\
\
\
Materials and Methods\
\
** add nomenclature table for equation terms\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx22584\tqr\tx22660\tqr\tx24349\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ul \ulc0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx22584\tqr\tx22660\tqr\tx24349\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ulnone Litter collection\
In late austral summer 2016, we collected litter of 29 wetland plant species from ten sites in the southern portion of the Australian state of Victoria. Species cover a range of functional communities: graminoids (n = 14), forbs (n = 10), woody species (n = 5), and one bryophyte. All samples for a species was collected from a single site. When a target species was identified, we selected ten individuals at least 5 m apart from one another along a linear transect. Robust, well-grown individuals were selected for litter clippings, in accordance with trait measurement recommendations (Perez-Harguindeguy). Litter was stored in plastic bags with moist paper towels in dark coolers during transportation. A planned species list was organised before fieldwork commenced that informed selection of collection sites, whose species\'92 composition was known from prior work. This species list was modified slightly during litter collection due to availability of target species. \
\
Since the aim of this study was to examine the traits plant material that contributes to litter, any plant material that may end up as litter was included. For grass species such as Persicaria decipiens, for example, this included the culm, leaflets, as well as leaves. For graminoid species such as Juncus usitatus, this included the full stem of photosynthetic tissue, not including the seed head. In woody species such as Acacia dealbata, this included the twiglet hosting the leaves. We expect that this choice of plant part undoubtedly affected trait calculations, but is appropriate considering the objective. A full list of plant parts included per species is provided. \
\
Trait selection\
We can conceptualise the seven traits as in Fig XXX. \
\
Leaf traits\
For each species, we calculated Specific Leaf Area (SLA; cm fresh area/ mg dry mass), Leaf Dry Matter Content (LDMC; mg dry mass / g fresh mass), Leaf Nitrogen Content (LNC; mg N / g dry matter), and Leaf Carbon Content (LCC; mg C / g dry matter), according to specifications in the Trait Handbook (perez-harguin et al). The ten individual clippings from each species were scanned in the specific leaf area meter within 24 hours of collected, weighed, and dried for three days at 60 C before being weighed again for dry mass. Both SLA and LDMC trait values for each species are expressed as the mean natural log of the ten replicates. Leaves from all ten samples were pooled and ground in a XXX to XXX size. Approximately 150 mg of dried ground litter was analysed for LNC and LCC in a LECO Elemental Analyser, using an ethanol standard. \
\
Biomass traits\
In this study samples of 10-20 mg of dried, ground litter were passed through the TGA-FTIR where they were pyrolysed in an N2 environment from 30 C to 800 C at a temperature ramp of 10 C/min. \
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx22584\tqr\tx22660\tqr\tx24349\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The multi-peaked derivative thermogravimetric (DTG) curve can be modelled as a mixture of three or four independent curves, termed \'91deconvolution\'92, which correspond to the carbon \'91pseudo-components\'92. We term these 'pseudo' components since these curves only approximately correspond to the mass fractions of interest: soluble carbohydrates (P-SC; not present in all litter samples),  hemicellulose (P-HC), cellulose (P-CL), and lignin (P-LG). The overall DTG curve also presents the loss of extractives, water, inorganic matter, and volatiles, so to further assist us in isolating the DTG curve to our components of interest, we crop the DTG data at around 400 K to exclude the mass loss peak associated with water loss, and at 900 K, to exclude mass loss associated with extractives interacting with volatiles. \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx22584\tqr\tx22660\tqr\tx24349\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
In order to use DTG data to estimate the mass fractions we must resolve the form of the independent curves included in the mixture model. In the biofuel field, these deconvolved curves are used to estimate kinetic thermal decay parameters. Many different models have been proposed to fit these kinetic curves, including Gaussian, Lorentzian, Weibull, the asymmetric bi-Gaussian, and the Frazer-Suzuki distributions. Symmetric curves such as the Gaussian and Lorentzian curves struggle because kinetic curves are often asymmetric. We used the four-parameter Fraser-Suzuki function in this study as it is highly flexible and has performed well when compared to empirically calculated kinetic parameters in the literature. The parameters associated with the Fraser-Suzuki function are height, skew, position, and width (ref equation). \
\
The mixture model (ref equation) was fit using functions made available in the R package \'91deconvolve\'92 (Windecker & Golding, GitHub). Starting values with reasonable upper and lower bounds are passed first through an optimiser, which improves selection of starting values for use in the non-linear modelling package, minpack.lm. The functions select whether to program three or four components based on whether a peak or shoulder is identified in the data below 500 K. This fourth peak represents very labile soluble carbohydrates such as sugars. These are common in XXX types of species, though not present in a significant portion in every curve. The three main carbon forms of interest, and for use as traits, were HC, CL, and LG. Identifying and quantifying the SC peak is manly useful to prevent assigning the mass lost in that interval to the wrong carbon form. Model parameterisation was verified using reference samples of glucose (to estimate soluble carbohydrates more widely), XXX (for hemicellulose), and cellulose. \
\
The Fraser-Suzuki function, due to its asymmetry, is useful for predicting kinetic curves and therefore useful for the deconvolution of parallel independent processes. The Fraser-Suzuki function is expressed as follows:\
\
$y = h\\ exp\\bigg\\\{-\\frac\{ln2\}\{s^2\}\\Big[ln\\Big(1 + 2s \\frac\{x- p\}\{w\}\\Big)\\Big]^2\\bigg\\\}$\
\
where T is the independent variable, in this case temperature, and the parameters h, s, p, and w are height, skew, position, and width of the curve, respectively. The rate expression ($d\\alpha/dT$) for a single curve can be written as follows: \
\
$\\frac\{d\\alpha\}\{dT\} = h\\ exp\\bigg\\\{-\\frac\{ln2\}\{s^2\}\\Big[ln\\Big(1 + 2s \\frac\{T- p\}\{w\}\\Big)\\Big]^2\\bigg\\\}$\
\
$\\alpha = \\frac\{M_0 - M_T\}\{M_0 - M_f\}$\
\
where $\\alpha$ is the conversion of mass from the start to the final temperature, given the initial: M is the dimensionless weight of the sample at initial temperature ($M_0$), at a given temperature ($M_T$), and at final temperature ($M_f$). Because we are assuming independent reactions by _n_ main pseudo components, mass loss rate is expressed as follows:\
\
$-\\frac\{dm\}\{dT\} = \\sum\\limits_\{i=1\}^n c_i\\frac\{d\\alpha_\{i\}\}\{dT\}$\
\
$c_i = M_\{0,i\} - M_\{char,i\}$\
\
$m = \\frac\{M_T\}\{M_0\}$\
\
where $c_i$ is the mass of pseudo component _i_ that is decayed, _i_ = 1, 2, 3, 4 refer to pseudo hemicellulose, pseudo cellulose, pseudo lignin, and pseudo soluble carbohydrates, respectively. $M_\{0,i\}$ and $M_\{char,i\}$ are the mass of the initial and final pyrolysis of the _i_-th component, respectively. When we introduce the Fraser-Suzuki function, the deconvolution can be expressed as: \
\
$-\\frac\{dm\}\{dT\} = \\sum\\limits_\{i=1\}^3 c_if_i(T)$\
\
where $f_i(T)$ represents the Fraser-Suzuki function with parameters $h_i$, $s_i$, $p_i$, and $w_i$. In total the model estimates 12 or 16 parameters, one of each of the former four for each of the three or four pseudo components. These are estimated using the nls.lm function as part of the minpack.lm package, which minimises the sum square of the vector returned by the function. The objective function used is the root mean square error of the predicted rate compared to the observed. \
\
The mass of each fraction in the overall mass loss within the cropped interval can be calculated by integrating under the curve of the component. This fraction can then be extrapolated to the mass fraction in the overall sample by incorporating mass cropped out by the lower and upper bounds and the remaining ash mass. \
\
Analysis\
The key traits calculated for each species (SLA, LDMC, LNC, LCC, P-HC, P-CL, and P-LG) were compared with a Principle Components Analysis and a simple pair plot comparison. All analyses were conducted within the statistical computing environment, R. \
\
Results\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx22584\tqr\tx22660\tqr\tx24349\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 * inherent recalcitrance of litter\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx22584\tqr\tx22660\tqr\tx24349\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Overall, the deconvolution of DTG curves matches the literature. Of the three dominant carbon forms, we can see that the P-HC peak occurs at the lowest temperature, followed by cellulose, and lastly by lignin. There is a fairly consistent pattern of widths as well. Cellulose is the narrowest, occurring very consistently at around 620 K, followed by hemicellulose, and lastly by lignin, which forms a wide peak. Where there is a fourth peak for soluble carbohydrates, it occurs at the lowest temperature, as it reflects the most easily degraded carbon sugar forms. \
\
The most consistent DTG peaks and ratios exist among the graminoid species. These species have a very consistent form. Forb species display great variation in their DTG curves. Most of them have lower cellulose peaks than the graminoid species and typically higher proportions of hemicellulose. This trend is bucked slightly by some of the more \'91grass\'92-like species, such as Persicaria recipients, inclusion of whose stem and culm resulted in higher lignin proportions. Woody species, unsurprisingly, contained consistently high fractions of lignin. \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx22584\tqr\tx22660\tqr\tx24349\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Rank recalcitrance\
\
* leaf traits and rels to recalc\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx22584\tqr\tx22660\tqr\tx24349\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Leaf traits\
Overall, the species selected in this study represent a wide range along the leaf trait spectrum. SLA values ranged from XXX in XX to XXX in XX. This range reflects the diversity the species selected for this study encompass. LDMC values similarly ranged widely, from XXX in XX to XX in XX. LNC and LCC varied by XXX. \
\
Overall, the leaf traits calculated in this study tie in well with the values calculated in the literature. Forb species had the highest SLA and LNC, reflecting their place in the spectrum with fast-growing, nutrient rich litter. Slower-growing, nutrient-poor species such as grasses and reeds tended to have lower SLA/LNC  and higher LDMC/LCC. These trends are not surprising.\
\
Relationships\
As seen in other studies, there was a clear relationship between SLA and LNC, as well as between LDMC and LCC. In addition LDMC and SLA were negatively correlated. Among biomass traits P-HC and P-LG were, also unsurprisingly, negatively correlated. There was no clear relationship between cellulose and either of the other biomass traits, and equally little relationship between any leaf trait and any biomass trait. High carbon content did not reflect higher recalcitrance of litter, with respect to higher lignin. \
\
When all the traits are plotted in a PCA, we can identify two main axes of variation. The variation of HC-LG  and SLA-LDMC are almost orthogonal to one another. \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx22584\tqr\tx22660\tqr\tx24349\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
* methodology\
One of the outcomes of this study is the code ==> display some sort of comparison to other methods? \
\
3. evaluate biomass traits as potential candidates for future trait research considering new methodology\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx22584\tqr\tx22660\tqr\tx24349\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\
 \
\
\
Discussion\
Do my results provide answers?\
Do my findings agree with others?\
What is the new understanding?\
What are the next steps?\
\
\
Traits affecting litter quality\
* rels between traits\
* secondary dichotomy\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx22584\tqr\tx22660\tqr\tx24349\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 We do this by introducing a novel application and methodology for biomass trait estimation that is innovative, cost-effective to understand intrinsic recalcitrance and assess plant contributions to soil seq. and assess interaction of these biomass traits with established leaf traits \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx22584\tqr\tx22660\tqr\tx24349\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
Research has labelled litter with low C:N ratio as \'91labile\'92 and high C:N ratio as \'91recalcitrant\'92 but this fails to distinguish. \
\
I will argue that there are two axes of how traits affect soil carbon stock. That previously labelled \'91litter quality\'92 traits are more tightly related to productivity and litter volume than quality. And new biomass trait axis affects \'91quality\'92 and litter permanence in decay.\
\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx22584\tqr\tx22660\tqr\tx24349\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 When we discuss how traits affect plant effects on carbon sequestration, we often simply indicate \'91litter quality\'92. But the concept of litter quality needs to be critically examined. A typical approach has been to consider the nitrogen content, or by proxy leaf traits such as specific leaf area, as estimates of quality. However these traits do little to address the root of why litter is recalcitrant. \'91Carbon\'92 as a wider measure fails to distinguish between carbon types. It assumes that leaves with more nitrogen are more labile and those with more carbon, no matter the type, are more recalcitrant. \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx22584\tqr\tx22660\tqr\tx24349\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx22584\tqr\tx22660\tqr\tx24349\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 While this is a very useful dichotomy to understanding both response to and effect on a variety of environmental conditions and ecosystem functions, it does not perform well in distinguishing litter quality.  \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx22584\tqr\tx22660\tqr\tx24349\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
This spectrum does little to capture trait effects on soil carbon storage, as leaf traits do not identify litter recalcitrance. Typical leaf traits cannot identify complex compounds in leaves, and wet chemistry approaches to measure lignin and other compounds are costly as well as risky and so are not widespread in the trait literature. \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx22584\tqr\tx22660\tqr\tx24349\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
### do I like this argument?\
However, productivity is typically more associated with the local environmental than with a species intrinsic properties. Some traits are good indicators of these highly productive systems. Traits such as relative growth rate (RGR) and high leaf nitrogen content (LNC) are good indicators that the species is located in a highly productive environment and will assimilate new biomass quickly. We might expect that within the same environment species would have a roughly similar contribution to the volume of litter deposited as they would enjoy a similar productivity. Within a system, however, if we are interested in the relative contribution of different species, we may be more interested in the question of the quality of litter being deposited. \
###\
\
\
What we are really interested in is the availability of that carbon. Carbon recalcitrance, or residence, in the soil, is what we are most interested in. Labile, easily decomposed carbon, while temporarily adding to the soil carbon stock, will not remain long in the soil and will not likely contribute to the resting carbon stock.\
\
When we discuss vegetation contribution to soil carbon, we typically refer to litter quality as a magical catch-all to characterise litter residence in the soil. \
This work demonstrates that this is a false equivalence. Leaf traits SLA and LDMC do indeed vary predictably with elemental LNC and LCC, and therefore are useful indicators of volume of carbon contributed to the soil. However, these traits do not vary consistently with measures of carbon complexity, in this case measured as pseudo-hemicellulose, pseudo-cellulose, and pseudo-lignin. This work has demonstrated that we need to deepen our consideration of what affects litter quality as concerns soil carbon storage and sequestration. \
\
\
Future work: biomass traits and the response-effect trait framework\
We have identified an additional axis of variation of plant traits, that has an obvious application to understanding inherent recalcitrance of species\'92 litter. The connection of this trait to decomposition, soil carbon storage and sequestration rate, are likely. Future work should build on this important axis, with currently usable methodology to push the boundary of the relationships these traits have to other ecosystem functions. How do biomass traits respond to hydrologic regimes\
\
The utility of the response-effect trait framework is that we can use easy to measure metrics to understand how a community, whose species composition is responding to certain environmental drivers, will affect ecosystem processes of relevance, such as decay rates, and carbon storage. Future work should expand on our current understanding on the importance of these traits, to identify whether particular environmental conditions encourage dominance of highly recalcitrant species or more labile species. This will allows us to refine the link between the environmental conditions of a site and how overlying vegetation may be contributing to soil carbon stores. \
\
Environmental change such as changed flow will affect species compositions. Improving our understanding of the recalcitrance, measured in terms of biomass traits, of species, will enable us to determine how environmental change can affect processes of interest. \
\
Relevance to wetland systems as they relate to global carbon\
This is particularly important in wetland systems. Wetland systems are not only \
\
 that are subject to wide changes in hydrologic regime and species composition seasonally. \
\
Future work: extend to veg from other ecosystems\
We need a targeted approach in wetlands\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx22584\tqr\tx22660\tqr\tx24349\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \'95	wetland-system specific approach to traits and C storage is necessary \'96 cite ecology article.\
\'95	Photosynthetic material that is deposited as litter is not just leaves\
\'95	Different species require different structures in their cell walls due to requirements for rigidity. Emergent macrophytes need to maintain their structure whereas a submergent species do not. \
\'95	Also bigger variation in type of tissue used for photosynthesis. In wetlands often the culm or stem, used for structure, is also photosynthetic material subject to dying and contributing to either autochthonous litter or allochthonous litter taken downstream to be deposited in other sites. \
\'95	This high variability may not be visible in the traits we traditionally measure in vegetation. \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx22584\tqr\tx22660\tqr\tx24349\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
A wetland approach - effect of plant parts\
Functional traits reflect both species\'92 response to environmental conditions, as well as mediate their relationship to various ecosystem functions. Functional trait research in general has mainly focussed on terrestrial systems, whose vegetation can be classified more simply: plant often have clear leaves separate to clear stem or woody material. It is less common in terrestrial systems to see plant material that has photosynthetic tissue along structural organs. In wetlands, not only must plants contend with temperature, precipitation, and soil conditions, there are also a range of hydrologic conditions to adapt to. Wetlands overall enjoy a much wider variation of environmental conditions than terrestrial systems, and in addition experience greater changes throughout the year. Plants in these environments must adapt to a wide range of conditions and other stressors including inundation, anoxia, drying out, and seasonal variation in nutrient and decomposer communities from runoff. The functional trait literature needs to begin to adapt to this variability by addressing trait-based research questions in wetland systems in particular. \
\
\
\
\
Wetland species are highly variable. Trees, reeds, grasses, herbaceous annuals, perennials, floating, araechnhyma, etc. The structural requirements to withstand inundation variation are very distinct. \
\
\
Future work: belowground biomass\
The work conducted here is clearly focused on aboveground plant material. Signicaicant work has indicated that below ground biomass not only has a strong effect on biomass contributions to soil carbon, but that the relationships and carbon types of aboveground and below ground litter do not necessary covary. In addition, belowground root material is typically more carbon complex than aboveground material and therefore may make significant contributions to the volume of recalcitrant litter in the soil. Therefore to get a clear picture of species\'92 contribution to litter quality and soil carbon recalcitrance, biomass trait work will need to examine below ground biomass in the future. \
\
\
\
\
\
I found that TGA coupled with modelling approaches is a rapid, low-cost assessment method that can be used to estimate partitioning of leaf carbon. \
The method outlined in this paper, in combination with mixture model code openly accessible, produce a transparent, reproducible, and relatively affordable method to increase exploration of biomass traits of species, of plant parts, as well as of links to other ecosystem functions. \
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx22584\tqr\tx22660\tqr\tx24349\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx22584\tqr\tx22660\tqr\tx24349\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}