{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9500\viewh12040\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \\section\{Acknowledgements\}\
The authors would like to acknowledge support from the Centre of Excellence for Environmental Decisions and the Holsworth Wildlife Research Endowment - Equity Trustees Charitable Foundation. Vegetation collection was conducted under Victorian Department of Environment, Land, Water and Planning Permit No 10007429. We would like to thank volunteers Paula Sanchez, Abbey Kinnish, Kelsey Johnson, Madeline Brenker, and Urtzi Enriquez Urzelai for assistance in the field collecting plant specimens, Dr Nick Golding for assistance developing the code, Dr Todd McLay for assistance with constructing the species' phylogeny, and the besjournals.bst style document for referencing.\
\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ul \ulc0 pca\
\ulnone zoom in more on axes. and make labels bigger/ fix labels\
\
network graph?\
\
figs to add to sup mat\
- discuss in results: add fig to show the TG and DTG curves for the three test masses, label them pyrolysis curves\ul \
\ulnone \
\
\ul notes for me\ulnone \
\ul \
writing\ulnone \
improve the table and fig captions. call them DTG curves in fig explanations. \
\
\ul TGA notes\ulnone \
\
unused:\
The thermal volatilisation of the main biomass components results in volatiles and char. While these natural samples may also contain an inorganic fraction that yields volatiles and ash, under an N$_2$ environment ash and char do not transform, so this is less of a concern (\\cite\{samt02\}). \
\
writing\
for intro\
- it is well understood that lignocellulosic biomass consists primarily of three major components: hemicelluloses, cellulose, and lignin. \
- biofuels researchers develop kinetic models for predicting the behaviour of biomass pyrolysis. \
- biomass pyrolysis proceeds through a series of complex reactions. by distinguishing the behaviour of individual three major components, can better understand overall pyrolysis. \
- ratio of three components differs greatly with the source of biomass material\
- there are few experimental or computational methods for determining the proportions of these in natural biomass. \
- existing methods require extractive steps, which are time-consuming, as well as do not necessarily relate to accurate lignin. they can overestimate lignin because high residues can remain after chemical treatment.\
- pyrolysis of biomass can be construed as simple superposition of three components, playing individual roles, as well as extractives, water, and inorganic matter.\
- sum of thermal degradation of main components: \
- the whole profile is the overlap of pseudo-components. \
- this as trait also useful for research that requires kinetics of biomass combustion.  \
\
for methods\
- just. for tga method: the mass loss curve of biomass can be regarded as the sum of particle mass losses associated with main components, particularly when using small sample quantities and low heating rates. this three-component model is widely used to explain biomass pyrolysis. barn09, yang06.\
\
- temperature is raised and weight of the sample recorded continuously. permits monitoring of weight loss with time. \
- primary result is graph of remaining weight v. temp. \
- then first derivative is obtained, i.e. mass loss rate. \
- graph shows peaks of mass loss. \
- \'91negative first derivative of the thermogravimetric (DTG) curve\'92\
- three stages\
	1. moisture evolution <220 and light volatiles orfa01\
	2. wide range of high mass loss, caused by devolatilisation of lb \
	3. little mass loss due to decomposition of carbonaceous materials (associated with the inorganic fraction) retained in char residue >600 \
\
to prevent secondary reaction between volatiles and char hu16. >600c can be inorganic fraction associated with decomposition of carbonates samt02.\
- inorganic yield volatiles and ash. thermal vol. of main components results in volatiles and char. char and ash don\'92t transform under inert n2 atmosphere. \
\
- yang06 found no interaction between components, but overall temp for peaks is higher than singly. \
- overlapped peaks cannot be resolved, separated, directly from DTG. \
- two hemicellulose peaks mull07 chen17\
\
\
- asymmetric bi-Gaussian sun15\
- logistic barb07\
- weibull cai07\
- asymmetric double sigmoidal chen17\
- fs pere11, hu15\
- svob13 used fs to successfully produce consistent and accurate results. \
- fs as mixture model to separate lignocellulosic biomass pyrolysis into parallel reactions, corresponding to hc, cl, lg. \
- add my objective function RSS = objective function (O.F.) = \
- cheng15 did non-linear optimisation using minimum of residual sum squares.\
\
- revisit my math explanation using chen17, mull07.\
\
When we introduce the Fraser-Suzuki function, the deconvolution can be expressed as: \
\
\\begin\{gather\}\
	-\\frac\{dm\}\{dT\} = \\sum\\limits_\{i=1\}^3 c_if_i(T)\
\\end\{gather\}\
\
where $f_i(T)$ represents the Fraser-Suzuki function with parameters $h_i$, $s_i$, $p_i$, and $w_i$. \
\
\
>>>>>>\
for results section\
- show result of the individual items overlaid.\
- three main components degrade in order. \
- in addition to hc, lg also contributes to weight loss in lower temperature range. yang06\
- well-described stages, also relate to chemical structure include: orfa01, hu16, barn10, chen15, bilb97, barn09.\
	- moisture evolution <220 and light volatiles\
	- within stage 2, DTG profiles have typical behaviour of lignocellulosic biomass pyrolysis. \
	- hemicelluloses decomposition 220-315 dominates at low range\
		- random, amorphous structure with little strength, easily hydrolysed. composed of sugar monomers, such as xylan and derivatives. xylan, amylose, amylopectin, starch. \
	- cellulose decomposition 315-400 both hc and cl react in x range. sharp peak, dominates at higher.\
		- long polymer of glucose units without branches. resistant to hydrolysis. crystal, linearly formed. stability, but degrades quickly once reaches 315. \
	- lignin decomposition is very slow and over wide interval >400 mostly lignin. lignin is mainly converted to solid charcoal with slow pyrolysis carbonization. \
		- composed of three kinds of benzene-propane and is heavily cross-linked. thermal stability is high. more difficult to decompose because constituents contain benzene ring. \
decay rate slower, covers wider temp interval. 160-900c. \
- order of widths also matches lit. chen15, cai13, cai14, varh11.\
\
\
writing notes for correlations\
LCC somewhat correlates to lignin, remains to be seen how much/what effect\
not perfect relationship, dominated by lignin but not only that. \
\
boxplot writing. quantitative statements. distributions, summaries\
\
}